Assistant: clarify which features are available where (#1494)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-assistant/overview.md

## Support and availability

Semgrep Assistant primarily supports findings generated by Semgrep Code. It requires Semgrep Cloud Platform.

Semgrep Assistant is available to users of the following source code managers (SCMs):
  * GitHub Cloud

>   * GitLab, including SaaS and self-managed plans

Author: As far as I know, "self-managed" is GitLab's term for self-hosted. They do also have something called "Dedicated" which I'm not particularly familiar with.

Reviewer: Yes, "self-managed" is the term used by GitLab, so I removed self-hosted for that reason -- do you think that's confusing?

![Semgrep Assistant Component tag list](/img/assistant-component-tags.png)

> Component tags are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings page**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Component tags are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings** page.
```

### Auto-triage

Semgrep Assistant uses GPT-4's understanding of programming languages and libraries, and your code and triage history, to auto-triage findings and suggest whether a finding can safely be ignored. For every recommendation to ignore a finding, Semgrep also provides guidance with an explanation on why this is the case.

> Auto-triage recommendations are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's main **Findings page** when filtering to findings that Assistant suggests should be ignored, and in the [finding's details](/docs/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto-triage recommendations are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings** page when you filter for findings that Assistant suggests should be ignored, and in the [finding's details](/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). 
```

![Semgrep Assistant in the filtered Findings page](/img/semgrep-assistant-autotriage-findings.png)

Assistant's suggestions to ignore findings are also sent through Slack and PR or MR comments, so developers can triage an issue without switching contexts.

![Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification](/img/semgrep-assistant-slack.png#md-width)
    *Figure*. Semgrep Assistant auto-triage in a Slack notification.

### Autofix Semgrep Code findings

> Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep Code findings when it identifies a true positive, if the rule doesn't have a human-written autofix. Assistant customizes the code snippets it provides based on previous feedback, if any, and your rule customizations. For example, if you have a custom rule that recommends a specific sanitizer, Assistant can recommend its use in the autofix suggestion for the issue in your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep Code findings when it identifies a true positive if the rule doesn't have a human-written autofix. Assistant customizes the code snippets it provides based on previous feedback, if any, and your rule customizations. For example, if you have a custom rule that recommends a specific sanitizer, Assistant can recommend its use in the autofix suggestion for the issue in your code.
```

Author: Hmm yeah, on its own that comma is definitely wrong, thank you. :) I don't love how the sentence sounds with no commas, though; maybe it needs to be split up properly. What do you think of:

> Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep Code findings when it identifies a true positive. Assistant will only suggest an autofix if the rule doesn't have a human-written autofix.

Reviewer: Yes, that looks good!

> You can set the minimum autofix confidence level required to display autofix suggestions from Semgrep Assistant in the **Settings** page in Semgrep Cloud Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the minimum autofix confidence level required to display autofix suggestions from Semgrep Assistant in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Settings** page.
```

> Autofixes are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings page** under **Your code** in the [finding's details](/docs/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). They are also available in PR and MR comments, so developers can review and verify Semgrep's generated fixes before they're applied.

Author: I don't think this feature is working right now either.

Reviewer 2: This is blocked on this bug: https://linear.app/semgrep/issue/AI-505/autofix-not-showing-in-finding-details-for-findings-even-if-they-have

> Autofixes are available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings page** under **Your code** in the [finding's details](/docs/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). They are also available in PR and MR comments, so developers can review and verify Semgrep's generated fixes before they're applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autofixes are <!-- available in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings** page under **Your code** in the [finding's details](/docs/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). They are also --> available in PR and MR comments, so developers can review and verify Semgrep's generated fixes before they're applied.
```

I saw that the [fix for this is high priority](https://linear.app/semgrep/issue/AI-505/autofix-not-showing-in-finding-details-for-findings-even-if-they-have), so I suggested we comment it out for the time being

Author: I'm honestly kinda hoping it'll be fixed before this is merged, but I'll leave this suggestion in case it makes more sense to merge earlier.

Author: This is fixed now, yay!

![Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix](/img/semgrep-assistant-autofix.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant generates a potential fix.

> The finding's details also include a link to the PR or MR comment with the autofix, so you can go to the PR or MR, where you can directly commit the autofix.

Author: I'd like to find a screenshot for this, but I haven't been able to see it happening currently.

Reviewer: Did you mean a more specific link than something in the Activity section? 

![image](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-docs/assets/16521651/0d5e4c70-167d-41d0-a858-4c27e52d9e89)

Author: It's possible I misunderstood what this is referring to; I was thinking it was part of the info specific to the autofix (which seems not working, as mentioned in my later comment). But if it's only referring to a link to the PR (not the comment specifically - that link will just take you to the PR in general) then this would work.

Reviewer: @jsmoxon can you please clarify what the expected behavior for this is?

Reviewer 2: The expected behavior is that where possible, we show an AI autofix code snippet on the Findings details page. We also offer a "copy" snippet button so that users can share it with developers. However, I think this bug is preventing any autofix snippets from being shown: https://linear.app/semgrep/issue/AI-505/autofix-not-showing-in-finding-details-for-findings-even-if-they-have 

@underyx do we include a link to the PR/MR as well?

Author: As Katie brought up, we have a link to the PR/MR in the Activity - the question is more if there ought to be a link that's specifically for going to the comment containing the autofix (this is what I thought it was saying). Or if the wording is ambiguous and it's actually referring to the main link to the PR (which is likely fine, but would benefit from clearer wording so other folks don't get on the track I did).

Author: I changed the wording here a bit so it's clear we link to the PR/MR where the comment exists.

### Priority inbox

> Semgrep sends weekly emails with information on the top three backlog tasks across all findings, according to Assistant. Unlike other Assistant features, these suggestions can include information for all Semgrep products that you have enabled. The emails are sent out on Monday to all organization admins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep sends weekly emails with information on the top three backlog tasks across all findings according to Assistant. Unlike other Assistant features, these suggestions can include information for all Semgrep products that you have enabled. The emails are sent out on Monday to all organization admins.
```

Author: I have the same issue with this sentence sans comma as with the other one, it's just too long to be strung together like that. How about this:

> Semgrep sends weekly emails with information on the Assistant's top three backlog tasks across all findings.

Reviewer: That works

![Semgrep Assistant Component tag list](/img/assistant-component-tags.png)

Component tags are available in SCP's **Findings** page.

### Auto-triage

Semgrep Assistant uses GPT-4's understanding of programming languages and libraries, and your code and triage history, to auto-triage findings and suggest whether a finding can safely be ignored. For every recommendation to ignore a finding, Semgrep also provides guidance with an explanation on why this is the case.

> Auto-triage recommendations are available in SCP's **Findings** page when you filter for findings that Assistant suggests should be ignored, and in the [finding's details](/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto-triage recommendations are available in SCP's **Findings** page when you filter for findings that Assistant suggests should be ignored and in the [finding's details](/semgrep-code/findings/#view-findings-details-about-a-specific-finding). 
```

Author: Hmm, this is another one that really doesn't sound right to me without the comma. Technically yes, it's a chain of two basic clauses, but having the conditional "when you filter..." pushes the end of the first main clause a long way from the and, making it hard when you get to the and to figure out where you need to go back and break it.

Semgrep Assistant prompts you for feedback whenever it suggests that a finding is a false positive. Because Assistant content is generated by language models (LLMs), your feedback helps the Semgrep team improve Assistant.

> * In Semgrep Cloud Platform, the Assistant recommendation appears under **Activity** for a finding, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons.

Author: I haven't been able to confirm this happens any longer. If we can find confirmation, we can restore this line.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we intentionally removed this but I'm not seeing it now either. Fine to remove for now to unblock this.

Author: Confirmed it's a bug, hopefully won't take too long to fix, and then we can merge with the line restored.
